This page has been Textised!
The original page address was https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2019/05/27/russian-official-bodyslams-reporter-asking-about-corruption-faces-jail-time-a65752
For sharing use http://tinyurl.com/y6d8g32p

Here are some options:

- Back to original page (in this window | in a new window)
- Convert this page to a PDF
- Print this page
- Textise Home Page (full version | text only version)
- Textise Options Page (choose font size, font colour, etc.)

Are you a webmaster? Find out how to easily add Textise to your web site.

×
Sections
Home
News
Opinion
Business
Meanwhile
Arts and Life
Podcasts
Videos
Galleries
Newsletter
Print Editions
Multimedia projects
Mothers & Daughters
Generation P
News
Opinion
Business
Meanwhile
Arts and Life
Podcasts
Videos
 
Russian Official Bodyslams Reporter Asking About Corruption, Faces Jail
May 27, 2019
Sergei Zaytsev	  Screenshot Vesti	 
A district head in Siberia is under investigation for body-slamming a state-run television journalist during an interview featuring questions about corruption allegations.

The Rossia 24 news channel  showed  Sergei Zaytsev, who heads the Shirinsky district in the republic of Khakasia, snatching the reporter’s microphone and throwing him to the ground. Zaytsev  told  local media that he had been provoked by the news crew when they questioned him about corruption linked to rebuilding efforts following deadly wildfires in 2015. 

Russia’s Investigative Committee  announced  on Monday that it had opened a criminal case into Zaytsev following the incident. He faces up to six years behind bars on charges of “obstructing lawful professional journalistic activities.”  

“In his office, Zaytsev was dissatisfied with attempts to gain information, pushed the journalist and, grabbing his clothes, threw him to the floor, causing the victim physical pain,” the committee said. 

At least 30 residents were believed to have  died  and 5,000 left homeless as a result of the 2015 wildfires. A local fire chief was  arrested  for negligence in failing to personally arrange for residents and their property to be saved from the spate of wildfires. 

Update: The general council of the ruling United Russia party has expelled Zaytsev from the party, the state-run RIA Novosti news outlet reported on Monday.

Read more about: Journalists , Corruption
Most read
Just in
May 28, 2019	Russians Are Cutting Spending on Basic Goods, Survey Says
May 28, 2019	BDSM-Style Graduation Video Divides Russians
May 28, 2019	Kosovo Releases Russian UN Worker After Moscow Demand
May 28, 2019	Chinese Officials Are Searching Russian Travelers’ Phones at Border, Consulate Warns
May 28, 2019	Russian Teenager Attacks Classmate With Axe, Cites Past School Shootings – Reports
1
Venezuela crisis Russia Rejects New ‘Monroe Doctrine’ of U.S. in Latin America – Lavrov
2
opinion Pyotr Kortunov	  Russia Unlikely to Stay Neutral if U.S. and Iran Go to War
3
news Russian Official Bodyslams Reporter Asking About Corruption, Faces Jail
4
Editorial attack 4 Russian Journalists Stabbed Over Refusal to Publish Stalin Article – Reports
5
Economic disparity Major Russian Cities Need 100 Years to Reach Moscow's Development Level, Study Says
Read more
opinion	  Leonid Bershidsky	  The Troika Laundromat Shows How Not to Combat Money Laundering
Focus on shady transactions, not the banks themselves.
finances investigation Kremlin Dismisses Talk of Possible U.S. Move to Probe Putin's Wealth
The Kremlin called the draft sanctions an example of anti-Russian sentiment.
Money matters U.S. Lawmakers Submit Bill to Investigate Putin’s Finances
Under the legislation, the U.S. intelligence community would be instructed to report on Putin's finances and Kremlin-linked corruption.
Corruption Russia Ties Lebanon in 2018 Corruption Perceptions Index — Transparency International
The watchdog said Russia's drop in the ranking was unsurprising "given weak political and civil rights."
Sign up for our weekly newsletter
Thanks for signing up!
The Moscow Times
About us
Jobs
Advertise with us
Podcasts
Videos
Galleries
Print Editions
Follow us
         
© copyrights: Stichting 2 Oktober, All rights reserved.


Textise: Back to top
This text-only page was created by Textise (www.textise.net) © Textise - CPC LLC
To find out more about our product, visit Textise.org.
