This page has been Textised!
The original page address was https://www.thelocal.es/20190527/what-you-need-to-know-about-spains-super-sunday-results
For sharing use http://tinyurl.com/y26covs2

Here are some options:

- Back to original page (in this window | in a new window)
- Convert this page to a PDF
- Print this page
- Textise Home Page (full version | text only version)
- Textise Options Page (choose font size, font colour, etc.)

Are you a webmaster? Find out how to easily add Textise to your web site.

Spain's news in English [Image: Search]  Search 
Editions:  Austria · Denmark · France · Germany · Italy · Norway · Spain · Sweden · Switzerland 
[Image: Logo]  
Become a Member [Image: My account]  	Sign in    My account [Image: My account]  	  Other editions [Image: Other editions]  
Austria
Denmark
France
Germany
Italy
Norway
Sweden
Switzerland
[Image: medals]  
Menu [Image: Menu]  
Jobs in Spain 
Apartment rentals 
Noticeboard 
Advertise with us 
Our Facebook page
Our Twitter feed
Our LinkedIn page
News categories
Barcelona
Valencia
Seville
More…
Membership
My account
Gift voucher
Corporate
Help center
About The Local
Contact us
Who we are
Send us a story
Advertise with us

Jobs in Spain
Browse jobs
Post a vacancy
Email newsletters
Newsletter sign-up
Edit my subscriptions
Other pages
Apartment rentals 
Noticeboard
[Image: iOS app]        [Image: Android app]  
 

 

[Image: Facebook]     [Image: Twitter]     [Image: Linkedin]     [Image: RSS feed]  
What you need to know about Spain's 'Super Sunday' results
The Local
news@thelocal.es	
@thelocalspain
27 May 2019
12:13 CEST+02:00
eu electionseu electionelection
Share this article
[Image: What you need to know about Spain's 'Super Sunday' results]  
Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya candidate for Barcelona's mayoralty, Ernest Maragall (L), celebrates the electoral results with his wife at the Barcelona Nord bus station. Photo: AFP
The Local
news@thelocal.es	
@thelocalspain
27 May 2019
12:13 CEST+02:00
The Socialists won big in the EU vote and came first in 10 of 12 regions that went to the polls. But they failed to win Madrid. And it's all change in Madrid and Barcelona.
Consolidated power for Pedro Sanchez.

On the domestic front, the Socialists did well in local and regional elections. They came first in 10 of the 12 regions that went to the polls.   

That is a leap from the last regional elections in 2015 when they only won two of the regions, even if they lack the absolute majority in most areas and will have to form alliances to govern.   

This is good news for Pedro Sanchez who is in an even stronger position when negotiating to form a government, after the Spanish Socialist Party (PSOE) won the most votes in the general election on April 28th but failed to win a majority. 

"The PSOE, after the results on April 28th, has been confirmed as the biggest political force by far in Spain's political system," Sanchez said.   

The PSOE won 29.26 percent of the vote in municpal elections nationally, compared to 22.23 percent for the PP.

 


Socialists have increased hold on municpalities as seen in provinces map of Spain, 2019 compared with 2015. DATA: Ministry of Interior 

 

So what does that mean going forward? 

Sanchez's preferred plan is to form a minority government with the support of other parties on a case-by-case basis when passing laws.   

But while Sanchez wants to rule alone, Pablo Iglesias, the leader of far-left party Podemos, is pushing him to form a coalition.   

But with Podemos having performed badly in the local and regional polls, Iglesias may not have enough weight to pressure Sanchez into accepting this.   

READ MORE: 

Spain's Socialists win big in EU vote
Spain proves it's more pro-Europe than ever and bucks the trend in EU
Socialists miss out on Madrid prize


It was predicted that, for the first time in over 20 years, the Conservatives might lose their stronghold of Madrid and that the a left grouping led by the Socialists with support from Podemos and Mas Madrid could win enough to secure a majority. But that didn't quite happen. 

The Socialists won the largest share with 37 seats but even with Mas Madrid's 20 seats and Podemos's seven, a coalition of the left would still fall short of the magic 67 seats needed to form a majority in the regional chamber. 

The People's Party (PP) won 30 seats, a huge drop on the 48 last time round, but the support of Ciudadanos with 20 seats and the far right VOX with 12 secures 68 votes for the grouping.  

This was a boon for the PP, which suffered disastrous results at the general elections, and gave leader Pablo Casado a reason to celebrate. 


Pablo Casado (C), celebrates the election results with PP candidate to Madrid's regional government Isabel Diaz Ayuso (L) and PP candidate to Madrid's mayoralty Jose Luis Martinez Almeida . Photo: AFP  

If the PP had lost Madrid it might have been difficult for Casado to cling on power as leader of the party. 

"There is only one PP, and the Spanish people have decided to vote for the original,” proclaimed a euphoric Casado at PP headquarters in Madrid when results came in.

“We are the big party in Spain. The PP will be here for decades.”

Madrid City Hall bounces back to the right


Madrid will once again have a conservative mayor after right-wing parties together won the majority of the vote. As in the regional parliament of the Community of Madrid, City Hall will now be run by the PP in a pact formed with Ciudadanos and Vox.

Mayor Manuela Carmena, a 75 year-old grandmother and retired judge who swooped to power on the back of the indignado movement in May 2015, conceded defeat on Sunday despite leading the party with the biggest share of the vote. 

Madrid Mas won just 19 seats, so even with the support of the PSOE and their eight seats would still fall short of the 29 needed to form a majority on the council. 

The new mayor will be José Luis Martínez Almeida of the Popular Party.

All change in Barcelona as Ada Colau just loses out to separatists


Ada Colau missed out on a second term as Barcelona mayor. Photo: AFP 

Ada Colau, a former housing activist who became mayor of Barcelona in May 2015, also lost out. She was pipped to the post by Ernest Maragall, a veteran politician from the Catalan Republican Left (ERC) which wants Catalonia to breakaway from Spain. 

Both Colau's ? Barcelona en Comú party and ERC won 10 seats each on the 41.strong council but Maragall beat her by just under 5,000 votes, which gives him first shot at forming a council 

France's former prime minister Manuel Valls meanwhile lost his bet to become mayor of the Mediterranean seaside city in Catalonia, coming in fourth with just over 13 percent of the vote.

READ MORE:  Catalan separatists leaders (one in jail and one in exile) win seats in EU parliament

Vox contnues to grow


Santiago Abascal, leader of Vox, casting his vote on Sunday. Photo: AFP 
 

Although the share of the vote that went to Vox dropped in the EU elections when compared to the general election last month - from 10 percent to just over 6 percent, giving them just three seats - the party did very well on a regional and local level.

They will support the PP in governing the Madrid region and Madrid City Hall, but it is in rural areas that they really did well.

Support for Vox on a local level has grown enormously since the last municipal elections in May 2015. 

In the last elections they won a meagre 22 councils across Spain but this time round have secured 530 seats and taken control of five councils. 

Five towns, all small rural communities in Castilla y León and Castilla La Mancha, will now have mayors from the far-right Vox party. These are Cardeñuela de Riopico, (Burgos), Vita (Ávila), Navares de las Cuevas (Segovia), Barruelo del Valles (Valladolid) and one town in Castilla La Mancha,  Hontecillas (Cuenca).

Poor show for Podemos


Pablo Iglesias says he won't resign as leader. Photo: AFP 
 

The big losers have to be Podemos and Pablo Iglesias whose leadership of the radical left party will be open to scrutiny.

Although the party holds 42 seats in Spain's lower chamber and whose support is essential to Pedro Sanchez, the group's poor results in Sunday's triple vote will weaken their bargaining power. 

Data from the Interior Ministry showed Podemos had scored just 1.6 percent of the vote, behind Vox which won 2.9 percent.

Spain bucks EU trend

While Eurosceptic parties have surged forward in other countries across the EU, the votes cast by Spanish voters show that Spain is, on the whole, pro-EU along with its neighbour Portugal as well as Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands. 

READ MORE: Spain proves it's more pro-Europe than ever and bucks the trend in EU

 

 
eu electionseu electionelection
Get notified about breaking news on The Local
Share this article
Popular articles
Ten top tips to avoid being pickpocketed in Spain
Five things we've learned from the European elections
Spain's Socialists win big in EU vote
What you need to know about how the European elections work
What EU citizens living outside their country need to know about voting in local elections
Member comments
The Local is not responsible for content posted by users.
Become a Member or sign-in to leave a comment.
From our sponsors
How to work 9-5 and travel the rest of the time
A full-time job shouldn’t stop you from satisfying your wanderlust. The Local spoke to Travel After 5 blogger Alline Waldhelm to find out her tips and tricks for travellers who only have 25 days of annual leave.

Get a month's worth of your favourite newspapers and magazines - for free
‘If you have an accident, no-one is coming for you’
As easy as ABC: Tips for a child-friendly move abroad
Recent highlights
Ten top tips to avoid being pickpocketed in Spain
Spain warns 'hard Brexit near impossible to stop' after May resigns
Ten things that only happen in Spain when summer arrives
What you need to know about Barcelona's new rent caps
Share your tips: How can you avoid being ripped off when in Spain?
Eight of the most outrageous rude expressions to learn in Spanish
The towns in Spain where Brits outnumber locals
 
Related articles
[Image: Catalan separatists leaders (one in jail and one in exile) win seats in EU parliament]   Catalan separatists leaders (one in jail and one in exile) win seats in EU parliament
[Image: Spain proves it's more pro-Europe than ever and bucks the trend in EU]   Spain proves it's more pro-Europe than ever and bucks the trend in EU
[Image: Spain's Socialists win big in EU vote]   Spain's Socialists win big in EU vote
[Image: MAP: Who's running your local council in Spain?]   MAP: Who's running your local council in Spain?
[Image: ANALYSIS: Where did it all go wrong for Spain's radical left party Podemos? ]   ANALYSIS: Where did it all go wrong for Spain's radical left party Podemos?
Jobs in Europe
ES
Senior Content Development Manager - Mobile Apps
SE
Business Development Manager/Account Manager - Sweden
DE
English speaking Preschool Teacher/Early Years Educator
DE
Kindergarten/Reception Teacher (in full time, start is possible in September 2019)
DE
TEJAY'S Kindergarten Solln and Königsplatz
DE
Business Development Manager - Germany
ES
Asesor de Anuncios Online – Imprescindible Nivel Alto de Inglés
DE
Digital content manager
View more English-language jobs
Noticeboard
01/05
Fully furnished flat to rent
24/03
Visit to Cadiz - seeking top historic places to see and eat
03/03
Yoga + Meditation Retreat in Bolonia (Cadiz) March 15-17
View all notices 
Post a new notice
The Local Europe AB
Östgötagatan 12
116 25 Stockholm
Sweden
Contact us
Our journalists
Advertise with us
Post a job ad
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Manage consent
[Image: Facebook]     [Image: Twitter]     [Image: Linkedin]     [Image: RSS feed]  


Textise: Back to top
This text-only page was created by Textise (www.textise.net) © Textise - CPC LLC
To find out more about our product, visit Textise.org.
